# Local_Importance

In this repository we provide the Experimental results concerning the paper "Measuring Feature Importance Through Counterfactual Distributions". In this paper we propose a novel local feature importance method that can be applied to any model. The general idea is to obtain two sets of positive and negative counterfactuals, estimate their underlying distributions with Kernel Density Estimations (KDE), and rank the features where positive and negative counterfactuals differ the most. <br />
We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method by illustrating and comparing the results with traditional and well-established local feature importance scores. We incorporate faithfulness metrics as an additional point of comparison, complementing our analysis and providing a more comprehensive evaluation of the differences and similarities between metrics. The results obtained on both datasets show that the metric we introduced is generally better compared to the other both on comprehensiveness and sufficiency. Consequently, this reinforces the usefulness of complementary introduction of our metric, not only because it represents a different point of view, capturing distributional
aspects of the data, but also because of the results obtained. \\
The all code can be found in the notebook 'Comparatie_Analysis" while on the notebook 'Barplot_Visualization' we provide the code for visualizing the barplot in the supplementary material. It was done in a separate notebook for pratical reasons. 
